#### Participation

The success of any course is directly related to the levels of engagement
brought both by the instructor and the students. As such, class participation
is vitally important.  Similarly, though attendance is logically required for
class participation, it is not sufficient. This class requires active
participation both inside the classroom and outside. No “passive consumers,” as
a professor of mine put it. 
    
You can miss up to three meetings without penalty, and you can use these
opportunities tactically, to provide space and time to either fulfill other
obligations or recuperate from the previous night. I don’t care why you didn’t
come. I start to care with the fourth absence, and I start to require
documentation. Repeated unexcused absence quickly gobbles up the class
participation component of the grade and begins to threaten your ability to
even *pass* the course.

Because this course is discussion-oriented, active participation means, most
importantly, participating in the discussions in class. But useful and engaged
participation in discussions also depends on good preparation, which includes
doing the reading for the course. I encourage (but will not collect) you to
think of one or two points of entry into a discussion of a text for each
meeting. This could be a point of confusion (don’t be shy!), a point of
comparison/contrast between passages to another work, or a useful parallel to
something outside the coursework. Come to class with questions, in other words,
and writing them out as mini-prompts may be especially helpful.

#### Critical presentation

While reading the critical history of *The Great Gatsby*, each of you
will give a short (8–10 minutes) presentation that introduces either one of the
essays cited in the reading for that day or an essay you have found via JSTOR
contemporary with that day’s reading. You will get to sign up for a time period
on the first day of class. The presentation will also have a short (1 page)
written component that you will turn in. The goal of the presentation is to
introduce new knowledge to the class that it has not already had, thereby
facilitating that day’s discussion. This presentation cannot make use of the
computer in the classroom, and you should email the subject of your
presentation to me 24 hours in advance.

#### Digital presentation

During the digital section of the course, each of you will give a short (8–10
minutes) presentation on a digital tool or project you have found online,
possibly even making some quick use of the <em>Gatsby</em> dataset. The tool or
project should be appropriate to that day’s work, meaning statistical analysis
tools and projects fit for the <code>Python</code> days, while spatial analysis
tools and projects fit better for the <code>Carto</code> days. You can sign up
on the first day for these presentations. Your presentation will also have a
short (1 page) written component that you will turn in. The goal of the
presentation is to introduce a new form of digital reading to the class that
may spark new ideas for final projects. This presentation can make use of the
computer in the classroom, and you should email the subject of your
presentation to me 24 hours in advance.
